<!---
Copyright 2023 CARIAD SE.

This Source Code Form is subject to the terms of the Mozilla
Public License, v. 2.0. If a copy of the MPL was not distributed
with this file, You can obtain one at https://mozilla.org/MPL/2.0/.
-->

# **_This document is under construction. The information in this document does not reflect the current state of the framework._**

# Using the ASAM Quality Checker Framework

## Configuration

### Introduction

The following documentation refers to the Windows installation. The ASAM
Quality Checker Framework core is available for other platforms as well. See
[the Linux paragraph](#linux) for usage instructions under Linux.

For starting the configuration GUI and the framework just start

- `ConfigGUI.exe`

in the `bin` directory of your installation. Per default,
`DefaultXodrConfiguration.xml` is loaded by the application. You are free to
replace this configuration by a different one. Depending on your use case, you
will find the following pre defined configurations:

- `DefaultXodrConfiguration.xml` which can be used to check OpenDRIVE
- `DefaultXoscConfiguration.xml` which can be used to check OpenSCENARIO

You can open a configuration, by simply dropping the XML on the executable.

![Config GUI](images/config_gui.png)

From there the CheckerBundle and ReportModuls can be selected and their
parameter can be set. Special parameters are the global parameters

- `XodrFile`
- `XoscFile`

on the top of the configuration GUI. These parameters define the OpenDRIVE file
and/or the OpenSCENARIO file which should be checked. All global parameters are
passed to all CheckerBundles. When defining a XoscFile the XodrFile will be
automatically retrieved, if an OpenDRIVE file reference is defined in the
scenario. Both parameters are stored as absolute file paths currently.

### Loading/Executing Configurations

The loaded configuration is shown on the left side of the GUI. The right side
shows the output of each executable in sequence.

To open an existing configuration, use the menu **File→Open** or start the
ConfigGUI.exe with the configuration as a command line argument.

The configuration can be started with the big arrow button. The first step in
the execution is a **CleanUp**, where the old temporary files are deleted.
After that, all configured CheckerBundles are executed as configured. The shown
order in the configuration is also the order of it's execution. As a final step
before calling the report modules, the result pooling is called automatically
to store the checker results in one result file.

### Changing/Saving Configurations

The configuration can be modified in the GUI with the context menu. Just press
the right mouse button to add, remove or change the order of the modules. It's
also possible to modify the parameters of the CheckerBundles. Within the menu
**File → Save** or **File → SaveAs** can be used to write the configuration to
a file. This is necessary before executing the CheckerBundles for the first
time.

If you want to create a configuration from scratch use the menu **File →New**.

Own CheckerBundles and the ReportModules have to follow the specification in
[CheckerBundle/ReportModule Meta Model](writing_user_defined_modules.md). If
they use this mechanisms then the framework is able to include their output in
the toolchain.

### Export Log Files

To export the log from the right side of the GUI, you can use the menu entry
**Console->Save** to store the output in one file.

## Available Checker Bundles

- [SchemaChecker](schema_checker.md)

## Reporting

The reporting of issues can be done in a text file, in a GUI and/or graphically
in the 3D model of the road network. The foundation for this is a file in the
XML base Checker Result Format (XQAR) containing all issues. The file format
specification can be found on the page [File formats](file_formats.md).

The ASAM Quality Checker Framework contains the following report modules:

- TextReport - generating a human readable text file with all issues
- ReportGUI (Windows only)

### Using the ReportGUI

This GUI can be used to filter reported issues. Just click on a CheckerBundle
entry to show all issues from this CheckerBundle. The list of Checkers can be
used to filter issues from one Checker in one CheckerBundle. The window on the
bottom left contains all the information about the selected issue. The source
code on the right side moves to the location in the file, if the issue contains
a valid FileLocation.

![Reporting GUI](images/reporting_gui.png)

Additionally it is possible to link issues that correspond to a 3D error with a
viewer application. A 3D error is an error in the 3D model of the road network.
It gets marked with a little icon in the left part of the ReportGUI window.
This viewer is not part of the Open Source distributution of the ASAM Quality
Checker Framework framework, but we provide a binding mechanism which let's you
provide your own implementation. Please refer to [the
documentation](viewer_interface.md) for details.

## Add Self Implemented CheckerBundles and ReportModules

You can add your own CheckerBundles and ReportModules to the configuration.
Just add the executables with the graphical user interface.

![Add CheckerBundle](images/add_checker_bundle.png)

This will call the executable, which generates a file in the defined Result
Format (XQAR) without any issues. The Config GUI extracts the included Checkers
and their parameters from there.

Requirements for your own CheckerBundle can be found in the [User defined
modules](writing_user_defined_modules.md) documentation.

## Automation and Deployment

There are several ways for automating the checking process

Open user interface and load the `DefaultConfiguration.xml`

    > ConfigGUI.exe

Open user interface and load a specified configuration

    > ConfigGUI.exe myConfiguration.xml

Open user interface, load the specified configuration and run the process
without user input

    > ConfigGUI.exe myConfiguration.xml -autostart

Open the application with `myConfiguration.xml` and a given XODR, which is
under test. Autostart enables the automatic mode

    > ConfigGUI.exe -config myConfiguration.xml -xodr myTrack.xodr [-autostart]

Open the application with `myConfiguration.xml` and a given XOSC, which is
under test. Autostart enables the automatic mode

    > ConfigGUI.exe -config myConfiguration.xml -xosc myScenario.xosc -autostart

The easiest way is to adapt and use the two delivered batch scripts
`CheckXodr.bat` and `CheckXosc.bat`. They automate the complete process and
execute all delivered CheckerBundles, create a text based report and open the
ReportGUI for filtering the results.

## Linux

You can use the shell scripts `CheckXodr.sh` and `CheckXosc.sh` in combination
with a self-written configuration file for execution and generation of a
textual report.
